# csc365-project-app
### Students: Bryn Harper, Karsten Dinsmore, Lindsey Amaro

This repository contains the implementation of an online e-commerce website connecting to our e-commerce database. The implementation includes the following components: a home page directory, a page displaying all products within our database (including their prices, brands, and total in stock), a page displaying all guilds in the database, and the user-interface for a page where a user could add a new guild to the database (due to time constraints, this Add Guild page was not connected to the backend and its completion stands as a future goal). 

Our database is stored locally on each of our personal computers using MySQL, and to connect the data to the application, the `mysql` module was used to create a connection and establish GET endpoints for the frontend to access. These connections and endpoints are contained in the `backend/index.js` file. 

All code for the website's user-interface is contained in the `csc-365-project` folder. React is used to build the frontend and navigation. The Product and Guild pages fetch the product and guild information at the API endpoints established in the backend to display this information on the user interface (see `csc-365-project/src/Guild.jsx` and `csc-365-project/src/ProductList.jsx` in particular). To manage and interact with the data, on the Product page, users can search for products by name or sort results by price or name. The search bar works by taking the user's input and searching for all potential matches on the page. Error handling is also added to the search bar, where if a user enters a numeric or special character (i.e. an @ symbol), the page displays an error telling them that these characters are not allowed. A message also displays if a user's search does not yield any results. The sorting functionality appears as two buttons on the page that users can click on (if they click on a sort button twice, the sort is reversed. For example, if a user selects "Sort by Price", items are sorted from highest to lowest price, and if the button is clicked again, the results are reversed from lowest to highest price).  These buttons work using React's `useState` functionality, dynamically displaying sorted results when the button is clicked. The majority of the search and sort code are contained in `csc-365-project/src/ProductList.jsx`). Similar sorting buttons are also contained on the Guild page.

As mentioned, had there been more time, future work would have involved connecting the Add Guild page to the app's backend, so a user could enter a new guild into the database from the website. The UI is contained in  `csc-365-project/src/AddGuild.jsx` and the Post endpoint to input the information into the database is contained in `backend/index.js`. The connection between the two stands as future work. 

To run this project on a local machine, be sure to install all `package.json` files. Note that there are `package.json` files in three locations in this repository: root, `backend`, and `csc-365-project`. 
